Welcome back everyone.
Now I know in the last few lessons we brought a lot of new saga code and we had to refactor our code
quite significantly and we were introduced to all of these new saga concepts such as take every take.
Latest plot call writing the songs themselves yield statements try catch blocks there's just so so much
code that we wrote that amongst the process of coding all of that out.
I am worried that we might have gotten a little lost in what it is that we were trying to accomplish.
So what I want to do in this lesson is just take some time and not look at any code at all and just
understand conceptually what it is that we just wrote.
Let's begin with our new feature collection sagas.
Well looking back at that redux saga diagram that we had before I've slightly modified it a little more
now so that it matches what we just wrote regarding our fact collection saga.
So what we did was that we still had our components that dispatch the action of fetching our collections
except now we're fetching a new fetch collections start action.
So we broke out all of our asynchronous related fetching actions into stark success and failure actions
and our component is the one that ends up firing the first action to start fetching those collections
this action makes it to the middleware.
Right.
Our saga middleware which then dispatches it into all the sagas and we happen to have a saga that's
listening for that that collection start which is our fetch collections start saga this saga listens
for that action that we just dispatched from our component.
And then it fires off its own function call yielding to another saga which was our fetch collections
async saga.
So the moment this saga heard this fetch collection start it then took that action and passed that action
into what ever other saga we wanted to fire based on that action.
Now how we caught and passed that action into the next saga was using any of those take methods.
So when we used that take latest or take every method we were essentially doing just that this saga
was saying I'm going to take every single fetch collection start action and then I'm going to do something
with it whatever that something was.
Is that next saga that we passed into that take latest or take every function call the moment that fetch
collection async generator function got called this ended up doing the actual stuff that fetched our
collections from our firestorm from this saga.
Then depending on whether or not we were successful in getting that collection or not successful we
would end up dispatching a new fetch collection success or fetch collections failure action and then
that action goes back into the cycle middleware cycle middleware as passes them to all of our sagas
but because we have no sagas that are listening for these actions it just passes those actions to the
producers and our flow goes back to normal.
So this saga middleware literally is like a step in between all the actions being dispatched before
they make it to the reduced hours and then it performs some actions that are asynchronous in nature
such as fetching collections from the fire store library that we have and then it will dispatch new
actions of success or failure which finally make it to our producers that then update their reducer
states with the values that we've got back from our fire store so if you think about it like that from
an image standpoint it's actually much more simple.
The code we wrote was much more extensive because we had to deal with that take latest and not take
every as well as that put.
But those are really just the means in which we were able to move on to the next step inside of this
diagram.
Take lightest and take every being what allows this saga that's actually catch this fetch collection
start action that the saga passes to all of our sagas and then depending on what the success or failure
of the actual fetch call from the firestorm was we put out new facts collection success or fact collection
failure actions so put essentially the saga way of dispatching new actions.
So this was what we were doing with our fetch collections saga.
Now with our Simon sagas if we look at this other diagram we'll see that it's very similar.
The only difference now is that we have two different stream paths for what sagas could have done.
We still had a component that would dispatch new sign in actions either email silent start or Google
sign and start.
So those actions go into our saga middleware and our saga middleware it will pass all of those actions
to all the sagas.
Now we happen to have a on Google sign and start saga that is using take latest on Google sign and start.
So the moment it hears that Google is on a start action it's like oh OK I'm going to take this and then
I'm going to call my sign in with Google saga write that new generator function that we had this signing
with Google generator function has all the code to sign in with Google and then what it will do depending
on the success or failure is dispatch new sign and success or sign and failure actions which go back
into the saga middleware saga middleware determines that none of the sagas need or are able to consume
those actions.
And then it passes those actions to the reducer if we had that email sign and start our email sign and
start method hits our single middleware that goes into e-mail sign and start email sign and start is
also using take latest to listen for the email sign and start action and then it will take that action
and pass it into our sign and with email and password generator function.
This function then as the coda sign with email and password just like our sign with Google except with
sign and email and password instead.
And then depending on the success or failure of that it will dispatch the exact same actions that sign
on with Google did because our sign a success and sign and fail our actions are generic enough that
are reducer as are simply able to update the exact same way based on what the sign was successful or
sign and it was a failure.
The only difference was the requirements inside of these two generator functions one needed to sign
in with our Google and one year to sign in with email and password.
As far as the actual actions were concerned they were exactly the same because what we got back from
both the silence was going to be the exact same user object the data for our current user was the exact
same.
So our reducer only cares that the method sign and success gets fired.
I get that object I store it inside of my reducer state.
Now we're able to do this because our sign with Google method on our off library and our side and with
email and password method on our auth library both return us the same thing when it comes to the errors
if it fails but also the objects if it succeeds.
If the sign is successful we get the same snapshot object of the user.
So with that object we're able to simply dispatch the exact same sign and success method.
We don't need to duplicate and make two different actions that end up doing the exact same thing in
our reducer which is simply updating our current user value to that new value so with that in mind hopefully
this makes sense.
The only thing we're missing now from the old code we had before the refactor was session persistence.
Because before what we did is we had our app component that when it mounted it would fire off and instantiate
that auth dot on off the change method which would immediately let us know whether or not the user is
still signed into a session.
We don't have that code anymore because we've moved everything into sagas and the only time we ever
dispatch the sign is star actions is based on whether or not a user has clicked either of the buttons
that trigger these actions inside of the sign in component on Mounts.
Now for application we have nothing checking against the auth library to see whether or not the user
is still valid in the session.
What we're going to do then in the next lesson is we are going to write new actions that will check
against that auth library to see whether or not the user session is valid or not that code we're also
going to put into an app mount so that the moment our application boots up for the first time we're
going to check against the library to see if our user is still persistent.
That is how we're going to pretty much break out all of the code into sagas from a conceptual level.
So hopefully now equipped with the mental model in what it is that's happening when we write our sagas
it'll make more sense with the new saga we're going to write in the next lesson.